PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

# Description

Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed. Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any dependencies that are required for this change.

Fixes # (issue)

## Type of change

Please delete options that are not relevant.

- Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- This change requires a documentation update
- Refactor (refactoring code, removing useless files)
- Unit tests (no changes in the code)
- Behavioral tests (no changes in the code)
- Bump-up dependent library (no changes in the code)
- Benchmarks (no changes in the code)
- Documentation update

## Testing steps

Please describe how the change was tested locally. If, for some reason, the testing was not done or not done fully, please describe what are the testing steps.

## Checklist
* [ ] `make before_commit` passes
* [ ] updated documentation wherever necessary
* [ ] added or modified tests if necessary
* [ ] updated schemas and validators in [insights-data-schemas](https://github.com/RedHatInsights/insights-data-schemas) in case of input/output change

Commit message:

Three new options: security fixes + configuration update

PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

# Description

Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed. Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any dependencies that are required for this change.

Fixes # (issue)

## Type of change

Please delete options that are not relevant.

- Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- This change requires a documentation update
- Refactor (refactoring code, removing useless files)
- Unit tests (no changes in the code)
- Behavioral tests (no changes in the code)
- Bump-up dependent library (no changes in the code)
- Security fix in dependent library (no changes in the code)
- Security fix in dependent library (changes made in the code)
- Benchmarks (no changes in the code)
- Documentation update
- Configuration update

## Testing steps

Please describe how the change was tested locally. If, for some reason, the testing was not done or not done fully, please describe what are the testing steps.

## Checklist
* [ ] `make before_commit` passes
* [ ] updated documentation wherever necessary
* [ ] added or modified tests if necessary
* [ ] updated schemas and validators in [insights-data-schemas](https://github.com/RedHatInsights/insights-data-schemas) in case of input/output change
