# insights-results-aggregator-utils
Utilities for Insights Results Aggregator

# Utilitites for handling messages to be consumed by aggregator

These utilities are stored in `input` subdirectory.

## `anonymize.py`

Anonymize input data produced by OCP rules engine.

All input files that ends with '.json' are read by this script and
if they contain 'info' key, the value stored under this key is
replaced by empty list, because these informations might contain
sensitive data. Output file names are in format 's_number.json', ie.
the original file name is not preserved as it also might contain
sensitive data.

## `2report.py`

Converts outputs from OCP rule engine into proper reports.

All input files that with filename 's_\*.json' (usually anonymized
outputs from OCP rule engine' are converted into proper 'report'
that can be:

1. Published into Kafka topic
1. Stored directly into aggregator database

It is done by inserting organization ID, clusterName and lastChecked
attributes and by rearanging output structure. Output files will
have following names: 'r_\*.json'.

## `fill_in_results.sh`

This script can be used to fill in the aggregator database in the selected pipeline with data taken from test clusters.
It performs several operations:

1. Decompress input data generated by Insights operator and stored in Ceph/AWS bucket, update directory structure accordingly
1. Run Insights OCP rules against all input data
1. Anonymize OCP rules results
1. Convert OCP rules results into a form compatible with aggregator. These results (JSONs) can be published into Kafka using `produce.sh` (several times if needed)

### Usage

```shell
./fill_in_results.sh archive.tar.bz org_id cluster_name
```

### A real example

```shell
./fill_in_results.sh external-rules-archives-2020-03-31.tar 11789772 5d5892d3-1f74-4ccf-91af-548dfc9767aa
```

## `stat.py`

This script can be used to display statistic about rules that really 'hit' problems on clusters. Can be used against test data or production data if needed.

## `gen_broken_messages.py`

This script read input message (that should be coorect) and generates bunch of new messages. Each generated message is broken in some way so it is possible to use such messages to test how broken messages are handled on aggregator (ie. consumer) side.

Types of input message mutation:
* any item (identified by its key) can be removed
* new items with random key and content can be added
* any item can be replaced by new random content
