README.md, before:

# insights-results-aggregator-utils
Utilities for Insights Results Aggregator

[![GitHub Pages](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20-GitHub%20Pages-informational)](https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/)

## Utilitites for handling messages to be consumed by aggregator

These utilities are stored in `input` subdirectory.

### `anonymize.py`

Anonymize input data produced by OCP rules engine.

#### Description

All input files that ends with '.json' are read by this script and
if they contain 'info' key, the value stored under this key is
replaced by empty list, because these informations might contain
sensitive data. Output file names are in format 's_number.json', ie.
the original file name is not preserved as it also might contain
sensitive data.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anonymize.html

#### Usage

```
python3 anonymize.py
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `2report.py`

Converts outputs from OCP rule engine into proper reports.

#### Description

All input files that with filename 's_\*.json' (usually anonymized
outputs from OCP rule engine' are converted into proper 'report'
that can be:

1. Published into Kafka topic
1. Stored directly into aggregator database

It is done by inserting organization ID, clusterName and lastChecked
attributes and by rearanging output structure. Output files will
have following names: 'r_\*.json'.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/2report.html

#### Usage

```
python3 2report.py
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `fill_in_results.sh`

This script can be used to fill in the aggregator database in the selected pipeline with data taken from test clusters.

#### Description

The script performs several operations:

1. Decompress input data generated by Insights operator and stored in Ceph/AWS bucket, update directory structure accordingly
1. Run Insights OCP rules against all input data
1. Anonymize OCP rules results
1. Convert OCP rules results into a form compatible with aggregator. These results (JSONs) can be published into Kafka using `produce.sh` (several times if needed)

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/gen_broken_messages.html

#### Usage

```shell
./fill_in_results.sh archive.tar.bz org_id cluster_name
```

#### A real example

```shell
./fill_in_results.sh external-rules-archives-2020-03-31.tar 11789772 5d5892d3-1f74-4ccf-91af-548dfc9767aa
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `gen_broken_messages.py`

This script read input message (that should be correct) and generates bunch of new messages.

#### Description

Each generated message is broken in some way so it is possible to use such messages to test how broken messages are handled on aggregator (ie. consumer) side.

Types of input message mutation:
* any item (identified by its key) can be removed
* new items with random key and content can be added
* any item can be replaced by new random content

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/gen_broken_messages.html

#### Usage

```
python gen_broken_messages.py input_file.json
```


------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `gen_broken_jsons.py`

This script read input message (that should be correct) and generates bunch of new messages. Each generated message is broken - it does not contain proper JSON object - to test how broken messages are handled on aggregator (ie. consumer) side.

Types of input message mutation:
* any item (identified by its key) can be removed
* new items with random key and content can be added
* any item can be replaced by new random content

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/gen_broken_jsons.html

#### Usage

```
usage: gen_broken_jsons.py [-h] -i INPUT [-o OUTPUT] [-e EXPORTED] [-v] [-s]
                           [-a] [-d] [-m] [-ap ADD_LINE_PROBABILITY]
                           [-dp DELETE_LINE_PROBABILITY]
                           [-mp MUTATE_LINE_PROBABILITY]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i INPUT, --input INPUT
                        name of input file
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        template for output file name (default out_{}.json)
  -e EXPORTED, --exported EXPORTED
                        number of JSONs to be exported (10 by default)
  -v, --verbose         make it verbose
  -s, --shuffle_lines   shufffle lines to produce improper JSON
  -a, --add_lines       add random lines to produce improper JSON
  -d, --delete_lines    delete randomly selected lines to produce improper
                        JSON
  -m, --mutate_lines    mutate lines individually
  -ap ADD_LINE_PROBABILITY, --add_line_probability ADD_LINE_PROBABILITY
                        probability of new line to be added (0-100)
  -dp DELETE_LINE_PROBABILITY, --delete_line_probability DELETE_LINE_PROBABILITY
                        probability of line to be deleted (0-100)
  -mp MUTATE_LINE_PROBABILITY, --mutate_line_probability MUTATE_LINE_PROBABILITY
                        probability of line to be mutate (0-100)
```


## Utilitites for generating reports etc.

These utilities are stored in `reports` subdirectory.

### `stat.py`

This script can be used to display statistic about rules that really 'hit' problems on clusters. Can be used against test data or production data if needed.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/stat.html



### `affected_clusters.py`

This script can be used to analyze data exported from `report` table by
the following command typed into PSQL console:

    \copy report to 'reports.csv csv

Script displays two tables:
    1. org id + cluster name (list of affected clusters)
    2. org id + number of affected clusters (usually the only information reguired by management)

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/affected_clusters.html


### `reports.py`

List all rules and other interesting informations found in reports.csv. Data
are exported into CSV format so it will be possible to include them in
spreadsheets.

#### Usage

```

This script can be used to analyze data exported from `report` table by
the following command typed into PSQL console:

    \copy report to 'reports.csv' csv

Howto connect to PSQL console:
    psql -h host

Password can be retrieved from OpenShift console, for example from:
ccx-data-pipeline-qa/browse/secrets/ccx-data-pipeline-db
ccx-data-pipeline-prod/browse/secrets/ccx-data-pipeline-db
```

#### Generated documentatin

N/A



## Utilitites for working with objects stored in AWS S3 bucket

These utilities are stored in `s3` subdirectory.

### `upload_timestamps.py`

Script to retrieve timestamp of all objects stored in AWS S3 bucket and export them to CSV.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/upload_timestamps.html

#### Usage

```
upload_timestamps.py [-h] -k ACCESS_KEY -s SECRET_KEY [-r REGION]
                     [-b BUCKET] -o OUTPUT [-m MAX_RECORDS]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -k ACCESS_KEY, --access_key ACCESS_KEY
                        AWS access key ID
  -s SECRET_KEY, --secret_key SECRET_KEY
                        AWS secret access key
  -r REGION, --region REGION
                        AWS region, us-east-1 by default
  -b BUCKET, --bucket BUCKET
                        bucket name, insights-buck-it-openshift by default
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        output file name
  -m MAX_RECORDS, --max_records MAX_RECORDS
                        max records to export (default=all)
```

## Monitoring tools

These utilities are stored in `monitoring` subdirectory.

### `go_metrics.py`

Script to retrieve memory and GC statistic from the standard Go metrics. Memory and GC statistic is being exported into CSV file to be further processed.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/go_metrics.html

#### Usage

```
usage: go_metrics.py [-h] [-u URL] -o OUTPUT [-d DELAY] [-m MAX_RECORDS]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -u URL, --url URL     URL to get metrics
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        output file name
  -d DELAY, --delay DELAY
                        Delay in seconds between records
  -m MAX_RECORDS, --max_records MAX_RECORDS
                        max records to export (default=all)
```

## Checking tools

These utilities are stored in `checks` subdirectory.

### `json_check.py`

Simple checker if all JSONs have the correct syntax (not scheme).

#### Usage

```
Usage:

```text
usage: json_check.py [-h] [-v]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose  make it verbose
  -n, --no-colors  disable color output
  -d DIRECTORY, --directory DIRECTORY
                        directory with JSON files to check
```

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/json_check.html



### `open_api_check.py`

Simple checker for OpenAPI specification files.

#### Usage

```
usage: open_api_check.py [-h] [-v] [-n] [-d DIRECTORY]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose         make it verbose
  -n, --no-colors       disable color output
  -d DIRECTORY, --directory DIRECTORY
                        directory OpenAPI JSON file to check
```

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/open_api_check.html



## Utilities for logs handling

### `anonymize_aggregator_log.py`

Anonymize aggregator log files by hashing organization ID and cluster ID.
This tool works as a standard Unix filter.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anonymize_aggregator_log.html

#### Usage:

```
 anonymize_aggregator_log.py [-h] -s SALT

 optional arguments:
   -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   -s SALT, --salt SALT  salt for hashing algorithm
```

### Example:

```
 anonymize_aggregator_log.py -s foobar < original.log > anonymized.log
```


### `anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.py`

Anonymize CCX data pipeline log files by hashing organization ID and cluster ID.
This tool works as a standard Unix filter.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.html

#### Usage:

```
 anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.py [-h] -s SALT < input.log > output.log

 optional arguments:
   -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   -s SALT, --salt SALT  salt for hashing algorithm
```

### Example:

```
 anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.py -s foobar < original.log > anonymized.log
```



## Animation etc.

These utilities are stored in `anim` subdirectory.

### `anim_aggregator_consumer.go`

Specialized utility used just to create https://github.com/RedHatInsights/insights-results-aggregator/blob/master/doc/anim_aggregator_consumer.gif

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anim_aggregator_consumer.html

Commit message:

Provide description and usage subsections for stat.py script

README.md, after:

# insights-results-aggregator-utils
Utilities for Insights Results Aggregator

[![GitHub Pages](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20-GitHub%20Pages-informational)](https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/)

## Utilitites for handling messages to be consumed by aggregator

These utilities are stored in `input` subdirectory.
 
 
 
### `anonymize.py`

Anonymize input data produced by OCP rules engine.

#### Description

All input files that ends with '.json' are read by this script and
if they contain 'info' key, the value stored under this key is
replaced by empty list, because these informations might contain
sensitive data. Output file names are in format 's_number.json', ie.
the original file name is not preserved as it also might contain
sensitive data.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anonymize.html

#### Usage

```
python3 anonymize.py
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `2report.py`

Converts outputs from OCP rule engine into proper reports.

#### Description

All input files that with filename 's_\*.json' (usually anonymized
outputs from OCP rule engine' are converted into proper 'report'
that can be:

1. Published into Kafka topic
1. Stored directly into aggregator database

It is done by inserting organization ID, clusterName and lastChecked
attributes and by rearanging output structure. Output files will
have following names: 'r_\*.json'.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/2report.html

#### Usage

```
python3 2report.py
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `fill_in_results.sh`

This script can be used to fill in the aggregator database in the selected pipeline with data taken from test clusters.

#### Description

The script performs several operations:

1. Decompress input data generated by Insights operator and stored in Ceph/AWS bucket, update directory structure accordingly
1. Run Insights OCP rules against all input data
1. Anonymize OCP rules results
1. Convert OCP rules results into a form compatible with aggregator. These results (JSONs) can be published into Kafka using `produce.sh` (several times if needed)

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/gen_broken_messages.html

#### Usage

```shell
./fill_in_results.sh archive.tar.bz org_id cluster_name
```

#### A real example

```shell
./fill_in_results.sh external-rules-archives-2020-03-31.tar 11789772 5d5892d3-1f74-4ccf-91af-548dfc9767aa
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `gen_broken_messages.py`

This script read input message (that should be correct) and generates bunch of new messages.

#### Description

Each generated message is broken in some way so it is possible to use such messages to test how broken messages are handled on aggregator (ie. consumer) side.

Types of input message mutation:
* any item (identified by its key) can be removed
* new items with random key and content can be added
* any item can be replaced by new random content

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/gen_broken_messages.html

#### Usage

```
python gen_broken_messages.py input_file.json
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `gen_broken_jsons.py`

This script read input message (that should be correct) and generates bunch of new messages.

#### Description

Each generated message is broken - it does not contain proper JSON object - to test how broken messages are handled on aggregator (ie. consumer) side.

Types of input message mutation:
* any item (identified by its key) can be removed
* new items with random key and content can be added
* any item can be replaced by new random content

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/gen_broken_jsons.html

#### Usage

```
usage: gen_broken_jsons.py [-h] -i INPUT [-o OUTPUT] [-e EXPORTED] [-v] [-s]
                           [-a] [-d] [-m] [-ap ADD_LINE_PROBABILITY]
                           [-dp DELETE_LINE_PROBABILITY]
                           [-mp MUTATE_LINE_PROBABILITY]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i INPUT, --input INPUT
                        name of input file
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        template for output file name (default out_{}.json)
  -e EXPORTED, --exported EXPORTED
                        number of JSONs to be exported (10 by default)
  -v, --verbose         make it verbose
  -s, --shuffle_lines   shufffle lines to produce improper JSON
  -a, --add_lines       add random lines to produce improper JSON
  -d, --delete_lines    delete randomly selected lines to produce improper
                        JSON
  -m, --mutate_lines    mutate lines individually
  -ap ADD_LINE_PROBABILITY, --add_line_probability ADD_LINE_PROBABILITY
                        probability of new line to be added (0-100)
  -dp DELETE_LINE_PROBABILITY, --delete_line_probability DELETE_LINE_PROBABILITY
                        probability of line to be deleted (0-100)
  -mp MUTATE_LINE_PROBABILITY, --mutate_line_probability MUTATE_LINE_PROBABILITY
                        probability of line to be mutate (0-100)
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



## Utilitites for generating reports etc.

These utilities are stored in `reports` subdirectory.



### `stat.py`

Display statistic about rules that really 'hit' problems on clusters.

#### Description

This script can be used to display statistic about rules that really 'hit' problems on clusters. Can be used against test data or production data if needed.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/stat.html

#### Usage

To run this tool against all files in current directory that contains test data or production data:

```
python3 stat.py
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------------



### `affected_clusters.py`

This script can be used to analyze data exported from `report` table by
the following command typed into PSQL console:

    \copy report to 'reports.csv csv

Script displays two tables:
    1. org id + cluster name (list of affected clusters)
    2. org id + number of affected clusters (usually the only information reguired by management)

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/affected_clusters.html


### `reports.py`

List all rules and other interesting informations found in reports.csv. Data
are exported into CSV format so it will be possible to include them in
spreadsheets.

#### Usage

```

This script can be used to analyze data exported from `report` table by
the following command typed into PSQL console:

    \copy report to 'reports.csv' csv

Howto connect to PSQL console:
    psql -h host

Password can be retrieved from OpenShift console, for example from:
ccx-data-pipeline-qa/browse/secrets/ccx-data-pipeline-db
ccx-data-pipeline-prod/browse/secrets/ccx-data-pipeline-db
```

#### Generated documentatin

N/A



## Utilitites for working with objects stored in AWS S3 bucket

These utilities are stored in `s3` subdirectory.

### `upload_timestamps.py`

Script to retrieve timestamp of all objects stored in AWS S3 bucket and export them to CSV.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/upload_timestamps.html

#### Usage

```
upload_timestamps.py [-h] -k ACCESS_KEY -s SECRET_KEY [-r REGION]
                     [-b BUCKET] -o OUTPUT [-m MAX_RECORDS]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -k ACCESS_KEY, --access_key ACCESS_KEY
                        AWS access key ID
  -s SECRET_KEY, --secret_key SECRET_KEY
                        AWS secret access key
  -r REGION, --region REGION
                        AWS region, us-east-1 by default
  -b BUCKET, --bucket BUCKET
                        bucket name, insights-buck-it-openshift by default
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        output file name
  -m MAX_RECORDS, --max_records MAX_RECORDS
                        max records to export (default=all)
```

## Monitoring tools

These utilities are stored in `monitoring` subdirectory.

### `go_metrics.py`

Script to retrieve memory and GC statistic from the standard Go metrics. Memory and GC statistic is being exported into CSV file to be further processed.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/go_metrics.html

#### Usage

```
usage: go_metrics.py [-h] [-u URL] -o OUTPUT [-d DELAY] [-m MAX_RECORDS]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -u URL, --url URL     URL to get metrics
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        output file name
  -d DELAY, --delay DELAY
                        Delay in seconds between records
  -m MAX_RECORDS, --max_records MAX_RECORDS
                        max records to export (default=all)
```

## Checking tools

These utilities are stored in `checks` subdirectory.

### `json_check.py`

Simple checker if all JSONs have the correct syntax (not scheme).

#### Usage

```
Usage:

```text
usage: json_check.py [-h] [-v]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose  make it verbose
  -n, --no-colors  disable color output
  -d DIRECTORY, --directory DIRECTORY
                        directory with JSON files to check
```

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/json_check.html



### `open_api_check.py`

Simple checker for OpenAPI specification files.

#### Usage

```
usage: open_api_check.py [-h] [-v] [-n] [-d DIRECTORY]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose         make it verbose
  -n, --no-colors       disable color output
  -d DIRECTORY, --directory DIRECTORY
                        directory OpenAPI JSON file to check
```

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/open_api_check.html



## Utilities for logs handling

### `anonymize_aggregator_log.py`

Anonymize aggregator log files by hashing organization ID and cluster ID.
This tool works as a standard Unix filter.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anonymize_aggregator_log.html

#### Usage:

```
 anonymize_aggregator_log.py [-h] -s SALT

 optional arguments:
   -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   -s SALT, --salt SALT  salt for hashing algorithm
```

### Example:

```
 anonymize_aggregator_log.py -s foobar < original.log > anonymized.log
```


### `anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.py`

Anonymize CCX data pipeline log files by hashing organization ID and cluster ID.
This tool works as a standard Unix filter.

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.html

#### Usage:

```
 anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.py [-h] -s SALT < input.log > output.log

 optional arguments:
   -h, --help            show this help message and exit
   -s SALT, --salt SALT  salt for hashing algorithm
```

### Example:

```
 anonymize_ccx_pipeline_log.py -s foobar < original.log > anonymized.log
```



## Animation etc.

These utilities are stored in `anim` subdirectory.

### `anim_aggregator_consumer.go`

Specialized utility used just to create https://github.com/RedHatInsights/insights-results-aggregator/blob/master/doc/anim_aggregator_consumer.gif

#### Generated documentation

* https://redhatinsights.github.io/insights-results-aggregator-utils/packages/anim_aggregator_consumer.html
